= A Cellular Potts Model (CPM) of Colorectal Cancer =

Designed only to work as bolt-on project for Chaste v3.2 or v3.3.

This section contains pages generated automatically from the source code accompanying "A Multiscale Model of Colorectal Cancer Using the Cellular Potts Framework "
== Getting the code and installing dependencies ==

Before running these examples you will need to [wiki:InstallGuides/InstallGuide install Chaste's dependencies] and the [http://www.cs.ox.ac.uk/chaste/download.html source code for version 3.3].
The easiest way to do this is using an Ubuntu machine (or an Ubuntu virtual machine) as discussed on [wiki:InstallGuides/UbuntuPackage]. 
Note that Chaste is only fully supported on !Linux/Unix systems, so users of Windows or Mac OS X may need to follow the virtual machine route.
For manual installation of each dependency, on any version of Linux, see DeveloperInstallGuide.

You will also need the source for the PottsCrypt2015 project. It is available from the [http://www.cs.ox.ac.uk/chaste/download.html main Chaste download page] as extension to Chaste release 3.3 under the "Bolt-on projects" heading.
Move the project in Chaste/projects where 'Chaste' is the folder containing the Chaste source code.

Now the project should be installed, and everything should compile and run correctly. In order to
test if everything is installed correctly, you can run some tests. So from a command line do:
{{{
cd <Chaste3.3 path>
scons test_suite=projects/PottdCrypt2015/test/TestPottsCrypt.hpp
}}}

If each test run is passed, you can run some tests or simulations, or create your own test suites.

== Documentation ==
There are two folders - `src` and `test`.
 1. The `src` folder contains the following classes:
  * `CellShapeOutputModifier.xpp` - TODO.
  * `FixedSimpleWntCellCycleModel.xpp` - TODO.
  * `MutantBaseTrackerModifier.xpp` - TODO.
  * `MutantCellPottsUpdateRule.xpp` - TODO.
  1. The `test` folder contains:
  * [wiki:PaperTutorials/PottsCrypt2015/TestPottsCrypt TestPottsCryptLiteratePaper.hpp] - this file can be run to generate the results in Figure TODO.
  * [wiki:PaperTutorials/PottsCrypt2015/TestPottsCryptMutant TestPottsCryptLiteratePaperMutant.hpp] - this file can be run to generate the results in Figure TODO.
  * [wiki:PaperTutorials/PottsCrypt2015/TestPottsCryptSweeps TestPottsCryptLiteratePaperSweeps.hpp] - this file can be run to generate the results in Figure TODO.
  
== Running tests ==
You can then run tests and simulations with, for example,
{{{
cd <Chaste3.3 path>
scons b=GccOpt ts=projects/PottsCrypt2015/test/TestPottsCryptLiteratePaper.hpp
}}}

----
'''NB''': the paper was developed with release version 3.2 and 3.3. We have not tested the compatibility with release version 3.1 or under.

For further information on using Chaste, see [wiki:ChasteGuides extensive guide material].
You may also wish to look at some of the [wiki:UserTutorials basic user tutorials].
