= A Cellular Potts Model (CPM) of Colorectal Cancer =

This section contains pages generated automatically from the source code accompanying "A Multiscale Model of Colorectal Cancer Using the Cellular Potts Framework"

The code to run single simulations and was used to produce Figures 2 and 3 can be found here [wiki:PaperTutorials/PottsCrypt2015/PottsCrypt TestPottsCryptLiteratePaper.hpp]

The code to run parameter sweeps and was used produce Figure 4 can be found here [wiki:PaperTutorials/PottsCrypt2015/PottsCryptSweeps TestPottsCryptSweepsLiteratePaper.hpp]

The code to run include mutations and was used produce Figures 5, 6 and 7 can be found here [wiki:PaperTutorials/PottsCrypt2015/PottsCryptMutant TestPottsCryptMutantLiteratePaper.hpp]

Before looking at these, you may wish to look at some of the [wiki:UserTutorials basic user tutorials] for Chaste.


== Getting the code and installing dependencies ==

Before running these examples you will need to [wiki:InstallGuides/InstallGuide install Chaste's dependencies] and the [http://www.cs.ox.ac.uk/chaste/download.html source code for version 3.3].
The easiest way to do this is using an Ubuntu machine (or an Ubuntu virtual machine) as discussed on [wiki:InstallGuides/UbuntuPackage]. 
Note that Chaste is only fully supported on !Linux/Unix systems, so users of Windows or Mac OS X may need to follow the virtual machine route.
For manual installation of each dependency, on any version of Linux, see DeveloperInstallGuide.

You will also need the source for the PottsCrypt2015 project.  This can be done by checking out the version from the repository by using the command 
{{{
svn checkout https://chaste.cs.ox.ac.uk/svn/chaste/projects/PottsCrypt2015
}}}
in the projects folder of the Chaste directory. 

Now the project should be installed, and everything should compile and run correctly. 
You can now run the tests or simulations, or create your own test suites.

== Documentation ==
There are two folders - `src` and `test`.
 1. The `src` folder contains the following classes:
  * `CellShapeOutputModifier.xpp` - Modifier class to Output the Area Perimeter and Circularity of cells in a simulation.
  * `FixedSimpleWntCellCycleModel.xpp` - A version of the [https://chaste.cs.ox.ac.uk/public-docs/classSimpleWntCellCycleModel.html SimpleWntCellCycleModel] class to represent the cell cycle model as described in the paper.
  * `MutantBaseTrackerModifier.xpp` - Modifier class which tracks the base (and top) of the mutant patch.
  * `MutantCellPottsUpdateRule.xpp` - The component of the Hamiltonian (represented as a `PottsUpdateRule`) which models mutant cells as described in the paper.
 1. The `test` folder contains:
  * [wiki:PaperTutorials/PottsCrypt2015/PottsCrypt TestPottsCryptLiteratePaper.hpp] - this file can be run to generate the results in Figures 2 and 3.
  * [wiki:PaperTutorials/PottsCrypt2015/PottsCryptSweeps TestPottsCryptSweepsLiteratePaper.hpp] - this file can be run to generate the results in Figure 4.
  * [wiki:PaperTutorials/PottsCrypt2015/PottsCryptMutant TestPottsCryptMutantLiteratePaper.hpp] - this file can be run to generate the results in Figures 5 6 and 7.
== Running tests ==
You can then run tests and simulations with,
{{{
cd <Chaste3.3 path>
scons b=GccOpt ts=projects/PottsCrypt2015/test/TestPottsCryptLiteratePaper.hpp
}}}
and 
{{{
scons b=GccOpt ts=projects/PottsCrypt2015/test/TestPottsCryptSweepLiteratePaper.hpp
}}}
and
{{{
scons b=GccOpt ts=projects/PottsCrypt2015/test/TestPottsCryptMutantLiteratePaper.hpp
}}}
----
'''NB''': the paper was developed with release version 3.2 and 3.3. It will not work with with release version 3.1 or under.

For further information on using Chaste, see [wiki:ChasteGuides extensive guide material].
You may also wish to look at some of the [wiki:UserTutorials basic user tutorials].
